So now we've talked a lot about variances,
and
even touched a little bit on
the distribution of sample variances.
Now let's talk again about
the distribution of sample means.
So remember that the average of numbers
that are sampled from a population is
itself a random variable.
It has its own population mean and
population variance.
We know that that population mean is
the same as the original population.
We actually also have a result
that relates its variance back to
the variance of the original population.
In fact, it's sigma squared
the variance of the original,
original population divided by n.
So the variance of the sample
mean decreases to zero as it
accumulates more data.
Which is exactly what we know,
that the mean becomes more
concentrated as we collect more data,
more concentrated about the population
mean that it's trying to estimate.
This is very useful because we only get
one sample mean in a given data set.
We don't get lots of repeated versions to
investigate its variability the way we
do in these fabricated
simulation experiments.
So, we can estimate sigma squared, and we
do know n, so we actually know quite a bit
about the distribution of the sample
mean from the data that we observe.
So, the square root of the statistic
is sigma over square root n is
called the standard error of the mean and
we use this notation, we call a standard
deviation of the distribution of
a statistic, we call it a standard error.
So we talk about the standard
error of a mean to imply a number
that represents variability of means.
And the standard error of
a regression coefficient talks about
the variability in
regression coefficients.
So let's summarize.
So imagine a population that has mean
mew and variance sigma squared, so
measure of spread, sigma squared.
If we were to draw a random
sample from that population and
take the variance,
that is an estimate of sigma squared.
If we were to take the mean
that's an estimate of mu.
However, s squared is itself a random
variable and it has a distribution.
We don't know much about that
distribution, but we do know one thing,
it's centered around sigma squared,
and it gets more concentrated around
sigma squared, the more observations that
are going into that at squared value.
We also, we know a little bit more
about the distribution of sample means
from that population.
We know that they're centered at mu,
and we also know it get's more
concentrated around mu as
more observations go into the means.
However, we also know exactly what
the variance of the distribution of
sample means is.
Namely, it's sigma squared over n.
Now, in a given data set we don't have
repeated sample means to estimate this.
But what we do is we have repeated draws
from the original population in order to
estimate sigma squared.
So the logical estimate of the sample
variance of the mean is s squared over n.
And thus the logical estimate of the
standard error is s over square root n.
This quantity right here, s over square
root n is so important its given its
own name the standard error of the mean,
or the sample standard area of the mean.
So s, the standard deviation,
is really an estimate of how
variable your population is.
S over square root n, the standard error,
is really talking about how variable
averages of random samples of
size n are from the population.
Let's go through some simulation examples.
Standard normals have a variance of one.
Then that means they have
a standard deviation also of one,
because the square root of 1 is 1.
So means of n standard normals,
if our math is right,
should have a standard deviation
of one over square root n.
So let's say my number of
simulations is 1000, my n is ten,
and here what I'm going to do,
you can sift through this code a little,
but let me tell you
the gist of what I'm doing.
When I simulate r-norm,
number of simulations times n
I'm simulating 1,000 times ten draws
from a random normal distribution, and
I'm arranging them in a matrix.
And then with 1,000 rows and
ten columns, then for
each row, I'm calculating the mean.
Thus each row is the mean of ten IID draws
from the standard normal distribution.
Okay?
And I've done that lots of times so when
I take the standard deviation of this,
this should be a good approximation of
the standard deviation of averages of
ten draws from the standard
normal distribution.
And if you're un, if you don't think so,
then maybe add a couple extra zeroes to
the number of simulations but not too much
because your computer will get stuck.
So if you do that you get 0.31,
or point, around 0.32.
If you just take 1 over square root n,
that's 0.31 or around 0.32.
So they have to be the same.
Let's try it again.
Standard uniforms, remember that density
that's a flat line between zero and one.
That turns out that has
a variance of 1/12.
So let's take means of random
samples of n uniforms.
So what we're going to do is,
we're going to simulate in
this case ten uniforms.
Take their average.
And then do that over and over again.
And then take the standard deviation of
the collection of averages of
ten uniforms, and that will
tell us about the distribution of averages
of ten uniforms from this population.
Our math says that it should be
1 over square root 12 times n.
So if we do this, we get 0.09, and if we
just take 1 over square root 12 times n,
we get 0.09.
Poisson's 4 have a variance of 4, so
Poisson is a distribution that
we'll cover later on the class.
But for the time being,
just think it's a random,
discreet random variable that
happens to have a variance of four.
So means of random samples
of n Poisson 4 then
must have standard deviation 2 over
square root n according to our rule.
Okay?
So here I do it, I get 0.62 when I
empirically simulate lots of averages
of size 10 of Poisson fours.
I take the standard deviation
of thousands of them.
I get 0.62.
If I do 2 over square root n, I get 0.63.
So I may be off by a little bit, but maybe
beef up the number of simulations and
you'll get it much closer.
So let's go through one more example.
Remember that coin flips for bias point
have a variance p times 1 minus p,
when p is a half, that gives you a,
0.25 is the variance.
Means of random samples of n coin flips,
according to our theory, should be 1
over 2 square root n fair coin flips.
So what I've done here is I've
flipped a coin ten times and
taken the average of the ten coin flips.
And I do that thousands of times.
And I'm going to look at
the variability in that distribution.
I'm going to look at
the standard deviation because I
like standard deviations
better than variances.
And so I get 0.16 when I do that.
The theory tells me it has
to be about 0.16 when I do
1 over 2 times square-root n.
I get about 0.16.
So, again the only time you'll ever have
to do these simulation experiments is in
a class like this where you're learning
about what the standard error of the mean
is actually implying.